---
# Rrepare    

    dnf -y install tmux  
    dnf -y update  
 
 ---
# 安装 docker （方法一：） 
#https://docs.docker.com/engine/install/centos/  
#使用简易安装脚本  
#Install using the convenience script  

    $ curl -fsSL https://get.docker.com -o get-docker.sh  
    $ sudo sh get-docker.sh  
    $ sudo usermod -aG docker your-user  
 
sudo sh get-docker.sh 运行后发生错误：
Error: 
 Problem: package docker-ce-3:19.03.12-3.el7.x86_64 requires containerd.io >= 1.2.2-3, but none of the providers can be installed

---
# 安装docker (方法二：)
#https://docs.docker.com/engine/install/centos/  
#Install Docker Engine on CentOS  
#To install Docker Engine, you need a maintained version of CentOS 7.   
#Archived versions aren’t supported or tested  
#--注意这句话，测试的CentOS7, 我们是 CentOS8,可能会出现问题。  

## Installation methods
  Most users set up Docker’s repositories and install from them, for ease of installation and upgrade tasks. This is the recommended approach.
    
### Install using the repository

Before you install Docker Engine for the first time on a new host machine, you need to set up the Docker repository. Afterward, you can install and update Docker from the repository.
Set up the repository

#### Install the yum-utils package (which provides the yum-config-manager utility) and set up the stable repository.

    $ sudo yum install -y yum-utils
    $ sudo yum-config-manager \
        --add-repo \
        https://download.docker.com/linux/centos/docker-ce.repo

#### Install Docker Engine
  1. Install the latest version of Docker Engine and containerd, or go to the next step to install a specific version:  
   
    $ sudo yum install docker-ce docker-ce-cli containerd.io
    $ sudo yum install docker-ce docker-ce-cli containerd.io --nobest
    
   If prompted to accept the GPG key, verify that the fingerprint matches 060A 61C5 1B55 8A7F 742B 77AA C52F EB6B 621E 9F35, and if so, accept it.
   Docker is installed but not started. The docker group is created, but no users are added to the group.  
   
  2. To install a specific version of Docker Engine, list the available versions in the repo, then select and install:
    ...
   
  3. Start Docker
      
    $ sudo systemctl start docker.
    
  4. Verify that Docker Engine is installed correctly by running the hello-world image.
  
    $ sudo docker run hello-world  
  This command downloads a test image and runs it in a container. When the container runs, it prints an informational message and exits.  
  Docker Engine is installed and running. You need to use sudo to run Docker commands. Continue to Linux postinstall to allow non-privileged users to run Docker commands and for other optional configuration steps.  
  
  
### Upgrade Docker Engine
To upgrade Docker Engine, follow the installation instructions, choosing the new version you want to install.
  
 
# Play Docker
   
    docker 
    docker version
    docker --version
    docker info
    
# Install Compose
https://docs.docker.com/compose/install/

## Prerequisites

Docker Compose relies on Docker Engine for any meaningful work, so make sure you have Docker Engine installed either locally or remote, depending on your setup  
On Linux systems, first install the Docker Engine for your OS as described on the Get Docker page, then come back here for instructions on installing Compose on Linux systems.  

## Install Compose
Follow the instructions below to install Compose on Mac, Windows, Windows Server 2016, or Linux systems, or find out about alternatives like using the pip Python package manager or installing Compose as a container.

### Install Compose on Linux systems

On Linux, you can download the Docker Compose binary from the Compose repository release page on GitHub. Follow the instructions from the link, which involve running the curl command in your terminal to download the binaries. These step-by-step instructions are also included below.
```
  For alpine, the following dependency packages are needed: 
  py-pip, python-dev, libffi-dev, openssl-dev, gcc, libc-dev, and make.
```
1. Run this command to download the current stable release of Docker Compose:

    sudo curl -L "https://github.com/docker/compose/releases/download/1.26.0/docker-compose-$(uname -s)-$(uname -m)" -o /usr/local/bin/docker-compose
If you have problems installing with curl, see Alternative Install Options tab above.

2. Apply executable permissions to the binary:
    
       sudo chmod +x /usr/local/bin/docker-compose
    Note: If the command docker-compose fails after installation, check your path. You can also create a symbolic link to /usr/bin or any other directory in your path.
    
    For example:

       sudo ln -s /usr/local/bin/docker-compose /usr/bin/docker-compose

    1. Optionally, install command completion for the bash and zsh shell.  
    2. Test the installation.  
       ```
       $ docker-compose --version
             docker-compose version 1.26.0, build 1110ad01
      ```
      









     


