# Move snap packages to another location/directory

   see:   
   [official :system-snap-directory](https://snapcraft.io/docs/system-snap-directory)  
   [ hidden /$HOME/snap ]( https://cialu.net/how-to-move-snap-folder-away-from-home-location-in-linux/ )  
   [Move snap packages to another location/directory](https://askubuntu.com/questions/1029562/move-snap-packages-to-another-location-directory)  
   [Managing Ubuntu Snaps: the stuff no one tells you](https://hackernoon.com/managing-ubuntu-snaps-the-stuff-no-one-tells-you-625dfbe4b26c)  
   [ The snap format documentation](https://snapcraft.io/docs/snap-format)   
   [The system /snap directory](https://forum.snapcraft.io/t/the-system-snap-directory/2817)  
   

## 1. [Hidden /$HOME/snap](https://cialu.net/how-to-move-snap-folder-away-from-home-location-in-linux/)
   see : [snap folder](https://askubuntu.com/search?q=snap+folder)
    
  Tests and trials will continue in the coming days/months and, of course, we will keep you updated. Having said that, there is one thing we really can’t stand on about the snap system: a folder named ‘snap’ and placed inside the ‘home’ folder. Wow; what an intrusive (and ugly) thing that doesn’t follow any (please, take a look here: The Linux Filesystem Hierarchy) of the Linux filesystem organization guidelines! 

The /snap directory is, by default, where the files and folders from installed snap packages appear on your system.

From the official documentation, it has the following structure:

    /snap/bin - Symlinks to snap applications
    /snap/<snapname>/<revision> - Mountpoint for snap content
    /snap/<snapname>/current - Symlink to current revision, if enabled

  But you also find a ‘snap’ folder in your home directory, it has dedicated to snap applications’ settings, caches and more. And it is ugly to see it in your home folder.

  A lot of people are demanding ‘how to move the snap folder to another location’, but it seems something like impossible without broking the snap system. AskUbuntu and LaunchPad bug for references.

  So, in the end, the most fashionable solution I found is the following: hide the snap folder!
    
    #--------------------- main ------------------
    $ touch .hidden # create a .hidden file in the $HOME directory
    $ vim .hidden # edit the .hidden file and put the word 'snap' in it
    snap
    :wq # to save and close the file in vim
    Now, your ‘snap’ folder is disappeared from the home directory.
    
## 2 [Move snap packages to another location/directory](https://askubuntu.com/questions/1029562/move-snap-packages-to-another-location-directory)
Third and working option is to move the /var/lib/snapd directory as a whole then mount --bind to it from another location and that worked for me and here is the steps.

Just a small note, you already know, after the rsync is done in the below steps, you can backup the data inside /var/lib/snapd to another location until the whole process is successfully done then you can remove the backup data if you want to free more space
   
    ##############################################################################
    # Take Care this section may break the System !!!
    ##############################################################################
    ##Move snap folder to Home instead of root.
    #Create the directory : you can change the location
    mkdir /home/$USER/snap/snapd

    #Copy the data
    sudo rsync -avzP /var/lib/snapd/  /home/$USER/snap/snapd/

    #Do backups
    sudo mv /var/lib/snapd /var/lib/snapd.bak
    sudo cp /etc/fstab /etc/fstab.bak

    #Change fstab (Change $USER with your name or change the path totally)
    echo "/home/$USER/snap/snapd /var/lib/snapd none bind 0 0" | sudo tee -a /etc/fstab

    #remount fstab Or reboot.
    sudo mkdir /var/lib/snapd
    sudo mount -a

    if ls  /var/lib/snapd/ | grep snaps
    then
      echo "Re-mounting snapd folder is done successfully. !!!!"
      sudo rm -rf /var/lib/snapd.bak
    else
      echo "WARNING : Re-mounting snapd folder failed, please revert !!!!! "
      echo "WARNING : Re-mounting snapd folder failed, please revert !!!!! "
      echo "WARNING : Re-mounting snapd folder failed, please revert !!!!! "
      echo "WARNING : Re-mounting snapd folder failed, please revert !!!!! "
      echo "WARNING : Re-mounting snapd folder failed, please revert !!!!! "

      # Trying to revert automatically
      sudo cp /etc/fstab.bak /etc/fstab

      sudo mount -a
      sudo umount /var/lib/snapd

      sudo mv /var/lib/snapd.bak /var/lib/snapd

      echo "Files located at ~/snap/snapd should be removed, but it keeped for
      recovery until you ,manually, reboot the system and make sure the service
      is running correctly then manually you can remove that folder ~/snap/snapd
      !!!!!!!!!!!!!!, you should do that manually."

    fi
    ##############################################################################
    # Take Care the pervious section may break the System !!!
    ##############################################################################


    
## 3. [Managing Ubuntu Snaps: the stuff no one tells you](https://hackernoon.com/managing-ubuntu-snaps-the-stuff-no-one-tells-you-625dfbe4b26c)

